hello everyone it's elena and i'm back
with another video and today i'm going
to be doing a review of my exchange
semester at the university of regensburg
in germany
so i have another semester coming up
because i'm doing an entire year abroad
because cambridge does not allow you to
just do a semester
because it came with you take courses
for an entire year so if you only did a
semester you'd be coming back
and you would have missed half of the
classes that you will need for your
exams at the end of the year
so that's why i'm doing an entire year
but my first semester is over and my
second one is actually starting in about
a week so
it's going to be exciting i actually
don't have all my grades for the
semester yet but i'm only missing grades
from one subject
so let's just hope i didn't fail that
one
and then i would have passed everything
so fingers crossed
this is not how you cross your fingers
elena i think this is the sign you
should have made
sorry anyways the point is
here's my review of my exchange semester
so i'm gonna go with rating my exchange
semester based on three different
categories one is social life one is
extracurriculars and one is academics
and i'm going to be honest here the most
important to me is academics
because that's the reason why i went on
this exchange semester
i wanted to learn stuff about german law
and so
this is the ultimate reason why i went
the other stuff is important as well of
course
but to me that was really the main thing
but let's start with social life
because that one pretty much didn't
exist um so i'm gonna rank that one
uh two out of ten why two and non-zero
because some people from the university
of regensburg were super super nice to
me and reached out
via instagram or via the contact form of
my blog and we're like
hey um do you make me want to skype at
some point and i even got to meet two
people in person
when i was in reagan's work for like i
don't know two weeks
um and actually lived in my student dorm
before
the semester actually started and i left
and
really didn't meet any law students um
but
some of them got in touch via social
media and stuff and they were super
super nice um but
still the social life didn't really
exist because of the pandemic and i'm
not blaming that on reagan's book i know
that's not their fault and i'm honestly
grateful
that we got to have online classes and
didn't have to go to in-person classes
because that
really wouldn't have felt safe to me but
it's just you know harder to meet people
when everything is online and you're a
new kid and you've never met any of them
in person
because for some classes we didn't even
have zoom lectures
they would just upload the lectures so
you would never even know
who else is in the class because there
was
nowhere where you would actually meet um
like
you know in a digital space there was no
such thing
so that was kind of odd i guess
and you know it's not like in a lecture
where you have a little break and you
would usually talk to the person next to
you or something
um like that's usually how i made
friends because there's always some
extrovert who's ready to adopt an
introvert like me
but that doesn't really work when
everything is online um because you
don't have these breaks where you just
quickly chat to the person next to you
and so
yeah social life honestly not that great
um
but like i said that's not on the
university um that's really just on the
pandemic and i think a lot of people are
going through that
so yeah that one's not the greatest
next up is extracurriculars and here i
honestly think that this was my fault
i didn't really know where to look for
extracurriculars but i also
didn't really try to find out i'm pretty
sure that just dropping an email to the
international office
would probably have given me a clue
about where to look
but i honestly didn't really give it a
try and
i think the reason for that was that i
was just
so confused about everything that was
happening
because i wasn't really at my exchange
university i didn't really know anyone
um who you know had been for a few
semesters and whom i could have asked
some stuff
i was just there and i was like where do
i find my university emails
where do i sign up for classes how the
hell
do i find these online classes then so
that i can do them
i was just very confused about
everything um so miss confused needed to
figure out her life first
and i think it was good that i didn't do
any extracurriculars in the semester
but maybe i should try to find out where
to look for extracurricular for the next
semester
um but i actually had like a little
extracurricular
um of my own sort of um which was
writing a paper for the cambridge human
rights law journal and i'm so so excited
for it to come out it's about gender
quotas and elections and it's a topic
that i've wanted to write about for
quite a while
but i honestly just didn't really have
the skill set to write about it yet
because i wanted to write about it from
the european law perspective but also
the german law perspective and
i didn't know enough about german law to
actually write this
but because i got to take public law
courses at reagan's work
i could then write this paper and
honestly it was really really exciting
for me
to finally be able to research this in
full and
it's going to come off pretty soon but
fun fact another paper that
i co-wrote with whenever student
actually came out a few days ago
it's about animal rights law this is the
paper um if you're interested in reading
it i'm going to put the jstor link
down below if you have institutional
access to it you can read it for that
um but yeah i'm really really proud of
that finally being
out because that's the first thing that
i ever wrote for publication i actually
wrote that in
my first year of law school and
it's just so cool to me that it finally
reached the printer of a journal
and was actually published like that's
crazy
um but yeah that's how i used my free
time
that i had because i didn't do any
extracurriculars so overall i think i'm
going to give the extracurriculars a 7
out of 10
first because it was probably my fault
i'm pretty sure i could have found some
cool online events and the other thing
is
i honestly can't complain because i
really enjoyed using my time to write
that paper
it was a lot of fun for me and i know it
sounds like an academic thing and i know
it's related to law so
some people would say maybe it's not
really an extracurricular but to me
that is free time because i enjoy it so
7 out of 10 for the extracurriculars and
i should probably do some more research
for the next semester about
extracurriculars
and lastly we have academics now a lot
of people ask me whether i think that
cambridge is harder than rigginsburg or
german law school in general
and honestly i don't think it is for
regular law students in germany
because i do think that their degree is
incredibly hard and
i have a lot of fear of these stats exam
which are very complex exams that they
have to sit
um so i wouldn't say it's easier than a
logic grade from cambridge
but i do have to say that as an exchange
student who obviously you know doesn't
have to look at preparing for the stats
exam down the line
um i had a more manageable workload
during the semester than i would have
had during term time at cambridge
but still i had to put in a lot of work
so i had a few more hours left
during the week for doing other stuff
but it was obviously still hard and i
did have to put in a lot of work
now um i would say that probably
i had like maybe i would say like maybe
eight hours
more of time like distributed across the
week
so a little bit more than an hour more
time a day
um which is honestly great um
but i also don't know um how realistic
that comparison is
for regular law students because
obviously as an exchange student
i have more liberty in terms of which
classes i end up taking
so i'm not really sure how comparable
that actually is with regular german law
students
now one thing that i only realized how
much
i appreciated when i no longer had it
were the supervisions at cambridge
because while i was at cambridge i
always
dreaded supervisions not because i
didn't like them but
because when you go into a supervision
it's a one-on-one
or a two-on-one with your professor um
about the subject and
you are gonna be grilled with questions
by that professor
and that's cool because you learn from
it and you get to ask questions
um about the subject to one of the
brightest people in their field
and that's amazing but it also means you
have to prepare really well for this
because if you don't know what's going
on it's going to show very very quickly
so it's just very very stressful because
there's a lot of reading to do for
supervisions
but at reagan's work they don't have a
supervision system for some classes they
had something called conversations
which i think is quite similar to a
seminar but there you are
with i would say roughly about 25 people
and it is a little bit like supervision
but obviously not
as individualized as a supervision would
be um
and i honestly hadn't realized how much
i
benefited from that individualized
teaching
until i no longer had it and that's
something that i really missed
a lot and um it was just harder to just
you know go through everything on your
own
and when you don't know what's going on
um you
don't have that you know okay i can
just ask that in my supervision you can
of course email the professor and stuff
um but for someone who's very shy like
me that's always like a
one-hour task you know of writing the
email and then convincing myself that
i'm confident enough
to send it but that's a me problem okay
that's not a problem from the university
and i know that
um but i definitely do miss the
supervisions because
i just think they really gave me a
better understanding
of what was going on in the courses and
i'm really looking forward to getting
those back in my final year at cambridge
now all of my classes were online and i
think overall
i'm rating rigginsport in 9 out of 10
for academics
i'm taking one point off because i
really do miss my supervisions
but other than that i have nothing to
complain about
because my teachers were super nice
whenever i had a question because i
wasn't sure where to register for exams
as an exchange student and stuff
they were always really happy to answer
it um and
i think they did an amazing job of doing
online classes because i had a really
interactive online course
where you went through um like just you
know like it was a bit like an
online game i guess um because you know
sometimes you had to answer questions
and you had to figure out whether you
were right or wrong there were little
quizzes along the way it was really fun
um to do that some people did zoom
lectures other people
uploaded the lectures but no matter
which way they did it they did it in a
very clear and structured way and you
always knew
where to find stuff once i figured out
which platform it actually was where
you can find all the course information
um
so i think that was honestly really
great
and i always knew where i could get
support if i needed it
so yeah overall 9 out of 10 i'm really
happy with the courses
i enjoyed them a lot and i'm really
happy with the teaching that i got
so aside from me missing my supervisions
everything else related to academics was
honestly really great and
well done so i'm really happy with my
exchange university about that aspect
and like i said that was the most
important aspect to me
um and i think i am getting a lot
out of my year abroad in terms of
academics
it is obviously kind of sad that the
other part is missing
um i'm gonna see whether i'm gonna have
in-person classes in the second semester
so maybe i will actually be in
rigginsburg
otherwise i'll just do that from the
beauty of my room
as well um but yeah we're gonna see
um one thing is clear however my vlogs
are coming back and i am actually
planning to vlog
more regularly during the second
semester because i also want some
memories from my exchange year
even if they're all just at home
but i do want a little diary to look
back at
because i've realized that it's so nice
to have my cambridge vlogs and just look
back at them and have this like kind of
like
you know documentation from everything
that happened
um and i do want that for my year abroad
as well
so yeah i'll see you guys soon with
another exchange student vlog
and yeah thank you so much for watching
have a nice day
bye
[Music]
you